Experimental: External Payload Storage (#1341)
temporalio/sdk-python: README.md

External storage is configured via the `external_storage` parameter on `DataConverter`, which accepts a `temporalio.converter.ExternalStorage` instance. Any driver used to store payloads must also be configured on the component that retrieves them — for example, if the client stores workflow inputs using a driver, the worker must include that driver in its `ExternalStorage.drivers` list to retrieve them.

The simplest setup uses a single storage driver:

```python
import dataclasses
from temporalio.client import Client
from temporalio.converter import DataConverter
from temporalio.converter import ExternalStorage

driver = MyDriver()

client = await Client.connect(
    "localhost:7233",
    data_converter=dataclasses.replace(
        DataConverter.default,
        external_storage=ExternalStorage(drivers=[driver]),
    ),
)
```

Some things to note about external storage:

* Only payloads that meet or exceed `ExternalStorage.payload_size_threshold` (default 256 KiB) are offloaded. Smaller payloads are stored inline as normal.

> * External payload storage applies transparently to workflow inputs/outputs, activity inputs/outputs, signals, updates, queries, and failure details.

Reviewer: Is there anything you want to call out as not covered?

> * The `DataConverter`'s `payload_codec` (if configured) is applied to the *reference* payload stored in workflow history, not to the externally stored bytes. To encrypt or compress the bytes handed to a driver, use `ExternalStorage.payload_codec`.

Author: > Whereas I don't particularly care about encrypting or compressing the claim itself.

I'm not certain that all customers would not care to encrypt the the claim data since it will contain storage location information and could include information such as sizes, hashes, etc. But we can check in with customers on that point.

> * Setting `ExternalStorage.payload_size_threshold` to `None` causes every payload to be considered for external storage regardless of size.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Setting `ExternalStorage.payload_size_threshold` to `None` causes every payload to be sent to external storage regardless of size.
```

Author: If the driver selector declines to assign a driver for a payload, then the payload is not sent to external storage. This decision happens after the built-in size threshold check.

from temporalio.api.common.v1 import Payload

class MyDriver(StorageDriver):
    def __init__(self, driver_name: str | None = None):
        self._driver_name = driver_name or "my-org:driver:my-driver"

    def name(self) -> str:
        return self._driver_name

    async def store(
        self, context: StorageDriverStoreContext, payloads: Sequence[Payload]
    ) -> list[StorageDriverClaim]:
        claims = []
        for payload in payloads:
            key = await my_storage.put(payload.SerializeToString())
            claims.append(StorageDriverClaim(data={"key": key}))
        return claims

    async def retrieve(
        self, context: StorageDriverRetrieveContext, claims: Sequence[StorageDriverClaim]
    ) -> list[Payload]:
        payloads = []
        for claim in claims:
            data = await my_storage.get(claim.data["key"])
            p = Payload()
            p.ParseFromString(data)
            payloads.append(p)
        return payloads
```

Some things to note about implementing a custom driver:

* `store` and `retrieve` must return lists of the same length as their respective input sequences.

> * `StorageDriver.name()` must return a string that is unique among all drivers in `ExternalStorage.drivers`. This name is embedded in the reference payload stored in workflow history and used to look up the correct driver during retrieval — changing it after payloads have been stored will break retrieval.

Reviewer: We will error if they return dups, right?  (Guessing there's a test for this somewhere, I haven't looked yet.)
